QUESTIONS
- Chris, thank you ever so much for joining me. Um, thanks for the invitation. Oh, it’s an absolute pleasure. Um, people have been asking for a bit more of, you know, critical voices on active inference which—and you’re the perfect person to go to. But before we get there, I wanted to talk about your 2015 paper discussing the Cartesian theater. I know you want to say a couple of things about Dan, and it would be great just to discuss his sort of influence on you more broadly. Sure, thank you. So, yeah, so this is a really sad moment because that has I think it’s easy to say defined in large in many ways defined the shape of philosophy of mind in the 20th century up to today, and it’s a really great loss to see him go. Um, I don’t know if you would like to ask anything else about Dan or…?
- I’m curious what was he like sort of during your PhD? I mean, I guess this is a personal question because I want to be embarking on this year, but what was he sort of like as a guide and a mentor?
- For people who haven’t read that paper, what—and again it comes back to Dan—what is Cartesian materialism? What kind of role does it have to play in terms of predictive processing, and then what’s the problem with it?
- So I guess the question would be, we seem to have these phenomenal, I guess the word coming to mind again is textures, right? I mean, what people traditionally would have called qualia or qualia, which is sort of what, you know, seems to constitute the what-it-is-likeness of consciousness. So the redness of red or the apple of eating an apple and so on. And these seem to be constitutive of my experience, even if I don’t necessarily have to reflect on them. How do you, as a kind of leaning towards a higher order theory of consciousness, deal with these otherwise seemingly irreducible, ineffable intrinsic features which at least on the surface seem to seem to bellum becoming an intentional object, a sort of overt reflective object?
- So I guess the question is, is there could there be changes also in my sort of preference priors such that if I was super hungry and then took psilocybin, would my steak start glistening? Would my candy bar start—I don’t know. I guess at that point, it’s kind of hard to say what part of the system is being altered.
- So just to close up, you asked me at some point who wrote the maths in the Markov blanket paper. So it was first and foremost Manuel Baltieri because he has a background in machine learning. So he knows a lot of this stuff. And then I was helping him. I think that would be the correct way to say it.
- What is the difference between a Friston blanket and a Markov blanket?
